### 20 Reflective Prompts for Leaders and Coaches -- Based on the Points of You® Methodology

These prompts are designed to train or guide AI models (or human
facilitators) in coaching, phototherapy, and leadership development,
fully aligned with the Points of You® methodology. Each prompt includes
a framing context, sample questions, and coaching intentions, all seen
through the eyes of a Points of You® facilitator.

**1. Start With a Pause** *Context:* Begin the session with a gentle
shift in energy. *Prompt:* "Let's take a moment to pause. Take three
deep breaths. If you'd like, close your eyes. What do you notice in your
body, in your mind? What word or image comes to you right now?"
*Facilitator Note:* This stage sets the emotional tone. It is not about
doing --- it's about being.

**2. Observe a Photo as a Mirror** *Context:* Client has chosen or
described an image. *Prompt:* "What stands out to you in this image?
What draws your attention? If this image could speak, what would it say?
And what would it *not* say?" *Facilitator Note:* Look for symbolic
elements --- color, light, space, distance, characters. These details
invite introspection.

**3. Expand Through Contrasts** *Context:* After sharing an image or
idea. *Prompt:* "What would be the opposite of what you see or feel
here? What card might show a completely different side of this
situation?" *Facilitator Note:* This supports mental flexibility and
challenges fixed narratives.

**4. Role Reversal Through a Face Card** *Context:* The client draws a
Faces card. *Prompt:* "Who is this person in your story? What is their
relationship to your current situation? If they could talk, what would
they want you to know?" *Facilitator Note:* Faces enable empathy and
perspective-shifting --- two key goals of our method.

**5. Reframe a Leadership Challenge** *Context:* Executive is stuck with
a team issue. *Prompt:* "Imagine this problem was a scene on a card.
What does it look like? Now, choose a word that could represent a new
lens or value to bring to this challenge." *Facilitator Note:* Use the
phototherapy + word combo to reframe challenges.

**6. Create a Story From 3 Cards** *Context:* The client selects 3 photo
cards. *Prompt:* "Tell a story that connects these three images. Which
one is the beginning, the turning point, the ending? Which one
represents *you*?" *Facilitator Note:* Use story-building to reveal
unconscious narratives.

**7. Emotional Weather Forecast** *Context:* Quick emotional check-in at
beginning or end of session. *Prompt:* "If your current emotional state
was a photo card, what would it look like? Would it be stormy, sunny,
foggy, still?" *Facilitator Note:* Photo language helps bypass rational
resistance.

**8. Word as a Lens for Leadership Style** *Context:* Exploring
leadership identity. *Prompt:* "Pick a word card that resonates with
your current leadership. Now pick one that reflects how you *want* to
lead. What's the distance between them?" *Facilitator Note:* Word cards
can highlight gaps between self-perception and aspiration.

**9. Inner Dialogue Between Two Cards** *Context:* Two cards chosen with
tension between them. *Prompt:* "Let's imagine these two cards are in a
conversation. What does one say to the other? Where do they agree? Where
do they conflict?" *Facilitator Note:* Externalizing inner conflict
allows safer reflection.

**10. From Insight to Action** *Context:* Moving from Focus to Doing.
*Prompt:* "Based on your insight today, what is one thing you'll do in
the next 24 hours, one in the next week, and one in the next month?"
*Facilitator Note:* Keep actions small, specific, and connected to
emotional insight.

**11. Unexpected Feedback from a Card** *Context:* Coaching session with
feedback topic. *Prompt:* "Choose a photo card. Imagine it's giving you
feedback on how you show up in your role. What is it praising? What is
it gently pointing out as blind spots?" *Facilitator Note:* The card
becomes a safe proxy for tough truths.

**12. Create a Visual Mantra** *Context:* End of process or retreat.
*Prompt:* "Choose one photo card and one word card. Together, what
statement do they create? Let that be your mantra for the next 30 days."
*Facilitator Note:* Combines image, language, and intention.

**13. Step Into Someone Else's Shoes** *Context:* Conflict resolution or
team work. *Prompt:* "Pick a Faces card that could represent your
colleague. What do you think they are feeling? What are they afraid to
say? What do they need to hear from you?" *Facilitator Note:* Powerful
tool for emotional intelligence development.

**14. Dialogue with Future Self** *Context:* Goal-setting or transition
coaching. *Prompt:* "Choose a card that represents your future self in
one year. Now, what advice does this person have for you today? What are
they celebrating?" *Facilitator Note:* Activates vision and commitment.

**15. Use the Body as a Card** *Context:* Somatic awareness. *Prompt:*
"Scan your body. What image does this tension remind you of? What photo
card matches the sensation in your chest?" *Facilitator Note:*
Integrates mind--body awareness with visual symbolism.

**16. The Unspoken Voice** *Context:* Something left unsaid. *Prompt:*
"If your silence had a photo, what would it be? What word card belongs
to the thing you're not saying?" *Facilitator Note:* Helps surface
blocked or taboo content.

**17. Morning Reflection Prompt** *Context:* Daily use. *Prompt:* "Draw
one photo card. Ask: What energy am I bringing into today? What's one
word that would help guide my choices?" *Facilitator Note:* Builds inner
dialogue rituals.

**18. Team Alignment Process** *Context:* Group facilitation. *Prompt:*
"Everyone selects a photo that represents how they see the team. Share.
Then, choose one group card that represents the desired future. What
would it take to move from here to there?" *Facilitator Note:* Visual
consensus and group coaching tool.

**19. Reflection After a Challenge** *Context:* Debrief after conflict
or failure. *Prompt:* "Which card best represents how you felt during
that experience? Which card represents what you learned?" *Facilitator
Note:* Helps transform failure into insight.

**20. End-of-Journey Integration** *Context:* Final stage of a longer
process. *Prompt:* "Look at all the cards you've selected during this
journey. What's the theme that ties them together? If you had to name
the story of this journey in one sentence --- what would it be?"
*Facilitator Note:* Closes the loop and gives narrative coherence.
