**Educational Teams Training Program**

*A Facilitator's Plug & Play Manual*

**Introduction**

Educational teams carry one of the most profound responsibilities in
society: shaping young lives. Teachers, counselors, coordinators, and
principals not only deliver knowledge but also cultivate environments of
trust, curiosity, and growth. Working in education requires resilience,
creativity, and collaboration -- and above all, the ability to grow as a
team.

This program was designed for **educational teams worldwide** who seek
to strengthen collaboration, enhance professional identity, and create
new ways of working together. Using the **Points of You® methodology**,
participants engage in experiential learning that combines reflection,
dialogue, and creative action planning.

The journey consists of **8 sessions**, each building on the previous
one. Together they provide:

-   A safe and supportive environment for authentic sharing.

-   Tools for self-reflection and role clarity.

-   Practical skills for communication, feedback, and teamwork.

-   A renewed sense of purpose and connection to the educational
    mission.

**Facilitator Guidelines**

**Your Role as a Facilitator**

-   You are a **guide, not a lecturer**. Create spaces where
    participants explore their own insights.

-   Balance between **structure and flexibility**: follow the flow but
    remain open to the group's needs.

-   Be authentic: share your own humanity. Educational teams respond to
    sincerity.

**Principles of the Methodology**

-   **Pause:** Step out of daily routine, slow down, and become present.

-   **Explore:** Open perspectives using cards, images, and metaphors.

-   **Focus:** Identify insights that matter most.

-   **Do:** Translate insights into concrete actions.

**Energy Modes**

-   **Lift:** High energy, enthusiasm, play.

-   **Cocoon:** Quiet, deep reflection.

-   **Grounding:** Stabilize after emotional or intense sharing.

-   **Rhythm:** Keep flow steady and natural.

**Room Setting**

-   Circle of chairs for equality and connection.

-   Centerpiece with cards, notebooks, and creative materials.

-   Inviting atmosphere: natural light, music, fresh air, simple
    refreshments.

**Tools to Use**

-   **The Coaching Game & Punctum:** reflection and dialogue.

-   **Faces:** exploring identity and roles.

-   **Speak Up:** for structured conversations and feedback.

-   **ClicKit:** for action planning and visualization.

**Program Structure**

-   **8 Sessions**

-   **3--4 hours per session**

-   **Group size:** 12--24 educators

-   **Time frame:** Every 2--3 weeks

**The Sessions**

**Session 1: The Compass of the Journey**

**Objectives**

-   Build trust and team cohesion.

-   Introduce the methodology and program.

-   Map personal and collective strengths, challenges, and expectations.

**Flow**

1.  **Opening Ritual (15 min):** Music, circle, card check-in.

2.  **Program Introduction (15 min):** Explain
    Pause--Explore--Focus--Do. Establish group agreements.

3.  **Mapping the Landscape (45 min):** Each chooses 3 cards: strength,
    challenge, hope. Reflect, share in triads, then plenary dialogue.

4.  **Team Dialogue (30 min):** Speak Up cards for "What do we need as a
    team?"

5.  **Integration (30 min):** Create personal compass on ClicKit canvas.

6.  **Closing (15 min):** One-word round, gratitude.

**Field Practice:** One card conversation with a colleague/student.

**Session 2: My Role -- From the Inside**

**Objectives**

-   Explore personal perception of role.

-   Strengthen clarity and confidence.

**Flow**

1.  **Opening Energizer (10 min):** Word card check-in: "My role today
    feels like..."

2.  **Personal Reflection (20 min):** Write: What works in my role?
    What's missing?

3.  **Sharing in Pairs (20 min):** Exchange experiences of role success
    and challenge.

4.  **Faces Activity (40 min):** Choose a face card that reflects "Me as
    an educator now." Guiding questions:

    -   What do these eyes see?

    -   What is unspoken?

    -   What do I feel when I look at this face?

5.  **Group Dialogue (30 min):** What patterns do we share? What
    empowers us?

6.  **Integration (20 min):** Write sentence: "As an educator I am..."
    Decorate with stickers/cards.

7.  **Closing (10 min):** One sentence reflection.

**Field Practice:** Journal daily: one moment I felt aligned with my
role.

**Session 3: My Role -- From the Outside**

**Objectives**

-   Examine role perception from colleagues/students.

-   Identify gaps between self-perception and expectations.

**Flow**

1.  **Homework Debrief (20 min):** Share interviews with 2--3
    stakeholders.

2.  **Small Group Sharing (30 min):** Compare "my view" vs. "their
    view."

3.  **Speak Up Dialogue (40 min):** Cards: "What do others expect from
    me?" "What do I expect of myself?"

4.  **Plenary Reflection (30 min):** Discuss gaps and surprises.

5.  **Integration (20 min):** Write a personal reflection: "One gap I
    want to bridge."

6.  **Closing (10 min):** One insight per participant.

**Field Practice:** Try one small action to bridge the gap.

**Session 4: Bridging the Gaps -- Action Plan**

**Objectives**

-   Update role perception.

-   Build a practical action plan.

**Flow**

1.  **Opening Pause (10 min):** Short breathing exercise.

2.  **Personal Summary (20 min):** Write key insights from sessions
    1--3.

3.  **Action Planning with ClicKit (45 min):** Create canvas: My updated
    role. Include: strengths, challenges, next steps.

4.  **Peer Coaching in Triads (45 min):** Present canvas, receive
    feedback.

5.  **Plenary Dialogue (20 min):** What patterns do we notice as a team?

6.  **Integration (20 min):** Write "3 small steps I commit to."

7.  **Closing (10 min):** Choose card that symbolizes next step.

**Field Practice:** Implement one of the three steps this week.

**Session 5: Check-In -- Fine Tuning**

**Objectives**

-   Review implementation of action plan.

-   Identify recurring challenges.

-   Strengthen motivation and collaboration.

**Flow**

1.  **Opening (15 min):** Quote or story about resilience. Card
    check-in.

2.  **Sharing Circle (40 min):** Successes, challenges, surprises.

3.  **Win-Win Team Dialogue (40 min):** Questions:

    -   What do I bring?

    -   What do I ask from the team?

    -   What do I receive from the team?

4.  **Update Action Plan (30 min):** Adjust according to field
    experience.

5.  **Integration (20 min):** Each chooses a word card: "What I need
    now."

6.  **Closing (15 min):** One-word round of encouragement.

**Field Practice:** Practice one new behavior in team collaboration.

**Session 6: Quality Conversations with Interfaces**

**Objectives**

-   Develop skills for effective dialogue.

-   Practice expectation-setting and feedback.

**Flow**

1.  **Opening (15 min):** Choose a card: "A conversation I avoid."

2.  **Mini-Lecture (20 min):** Conversation tools -- PR,
    expectation-setting.

3.  **Simulation in Pairs (45 min):** Use templates: Beginning-of-year,
    Mid-year, End-of-year. Practice with cards.

4.  **Feedback Round (20 min):** Peers give supportive feedback.

5.  **Integration (30 min):** Each writes a script for a real upcoming
    conversation.

6.  **Closing (10 min):** One card: "How I want to feel in my next
    conversation."

**Field Practice:** Hold one real conversation using the script.

**Session 7: Collaboration and Teamwork**

**Objectives**

-   Strengthen team cohesion and trust.

-   Address conflicts and build reciprocity.

**Flow**

1.  **Opening (15 min):** Circle of appreciation: name one thing I value
    about a colleague.

2.  **Team Roles Exercise (45 min):** Explore roles (Practical,
    Sensitive, Wounded). Discuss: which role do I take?

3.  **Speak Up Activity (40 min):** Question: "How can we grow together
    as a team?"

4.  **Group Dialogue (30 min):** What supports teamwork? What blocks it?

5.  **Integration (20 min):** Each writes: "My contribution to team
    growth."

6.  **Closing (10 min):** Group gesture of unity (hands in center,
    shared word).

**Field Practice:** Initiate one small supportive act for a teammate.

**Session 8: Integration and Closure**

**Objectives**

-   Summarize the journey.

-   Celebrate achievements.

-   Plan forward steps.

**Flow**

1.  **Opening Ritual (15 min):** Music, gratitude circle.

2.  **Personal Reflection (30 min):** ClicKit canvas: "My journey --
    what I leave, what I take forward."

3.  **Pair Sharing (30 min):** Listen deeply to each other's story.

4.  **Group Creation (45 min):** Build a collage/visual map of the
    team's vision.

5.  **Closing Circle (30 min):** Each shares one word or gesture of
    closure.

6.  **Celebration (20 min):** Certificates, photo, music.

**Field Practice:** Continue monthly peer reflection meetings to sustain
momentum.

**Program Integration & Next Steps**

-   Encourage teams to hold **monthly check-ins** using Points of You®
    cards.

-   Provide each participant with a reflection journal for continued
    use.

-   Recommend annual refresh session with facilitator.

-   Inspire participants to integrate these tools in their classrooms
    and student interactions.

**Deep Dive -- Session 1: The Compass of the Journey**

**Session Objectives**

-   Build trust and psychological safety within the group.

-   Introduce the program's method and structure.

-   Allow participants to map their current reality: strengths,
    challenges, and hopes.

-   Begin creating a sense of shared journey.

**Preparation for the Facilitator**

-   **Room setup:** Chairs in a circle, with a centerpiece (deck of
    photo cards, candles or flowers, notebooks, markers). Tables on the
    side with refreshments and writing materials.

-   **Music:** Soft background playlist for arrival and opening.

-   **Tools:** The Coaching Game or Punctum decks, Speak Up cards,
    ClicKit for integration.

-   **Timing:** 3--3.5 hours total.

**Facilitator Note:** The first session sets the tone for the entire
program. Prioritize creating safety and openness. Avoid diving too
quickly into "heavy" topics. Let participants ease into the process.

**Flow & Detailed Facilitation**

**1. Opening Ritual (15 min)**

-   Play calm background music.

-   Welcome participants warmly, invite them to sit in the circle.

-   Script:

"Welcome. Today we begin our shared journey. We are not here to receive
lectures but to explore ourselves and our team in new ways. For the next
three hours, let us step out of our routine, slow down, and allow
ourselves to be curious."

**Activity:** Each participant chooses one photo card that reflects how
they arrive today. Share in one sentence.

**Facilitator Note:** If someone resists choosing a card, gently
encourage them:

"Just go with your intuition. There's no right or wrong choice."

**2. Introduction of the Program (15 min)**

-   Present the overall journey: 8 sessions, each with a theme, based on
    Pause → Explore → Focus → Do.

-   Script:

"This program is built as a journey. Each time we meet, we will pause,
explore new perspectives, focus on what matters most, and define
practical actions. This is our compass."

-   Set group agreements: confidentiality, respect, phones off,
    permission to be authentic.

-   Write agreements on a flipchart and let the group add theirs.

**3. Mapping the Landscape (45 min)**

**Activity:** Each participant receives 3 photo cards.

-   Card 1: My current strength as an educator.

-   Card 2: My current challenge.

-   Card 3: My hope/opportunity for the year.

**Steps:**

-   10 minutes quiet reflection: write 2--3 words per card in notebook.

-   Share in triads: each has 5 minutes to present cards while others
    listen.

-   Return to plenary: volunteers share insights.

**Facilitator Script for Transition:**

"Take a look at your cards. What do they reflect about where you are
right now as an educator? Notice both the light and the shadows. In
small groups, share your story -- and listen deeply to others without
interruption."

**Facilitator Notes:**

-   Encourage deep listening. Remind: no advice, no judgment.

-   If emotions rise, acknowledge them with care:

"It's natural that these images touch something inside. Thank you for
sharing with us."

**4. Group Dialogue -- Facing Challenges (30 min)**

**Activity:** Use Speak Up Question Cards. Example prompts:

-   "What is most important for me to bring into this team?"

-   "What challenge do we need to overcome together?"

**Process:**

-   Place cards in the center, participants pick one and respond.

-   Capture keywords on flipchart.

**Facilitator Note:** Keep atmosphere exploratory, not problem-solving.
The aim is to open perspectives, not fix issues today.

**5. Integration Exercise (30 min)**

**Activity with ClicKit Canvas:**

-   Participants summarize their compass: strength, challenge,
    intention.

-   Encourage them to decorate with stickers or a card.

**Script:**

"What is one word or image that captures what you bring into this
journey? Place it on your canvas as your compass for the program."

**6. Closing Ritual (15 min)**

-   Closing circle: each shares one word they take with them.

-   Play gentle music.

-   Script:

"Today we placed our compass on the table. In the coming sessions, we
will deepen, connect, and build our way forward. Thank you for your
openness and courage."

**Field Practice (Between Sessions)**

-   Each participant has a short card-based conversation with a
    colleague or student.

-   Prompt: *"What does this card say to you about our work together?"*

-   Write 2--3 reflections and bring them to Session 2.

**Possible Challenges & Tips**

-   **Resistance to cards:** Normalize it. Invite curiosity, not
    performance.

-   **Silence in sharing:** Allow it. Remind: "You can also just name
    your card without explaining."

-   **Time pressure:** Hold the frame. It's better to go deep with fewer
    shares than to rush everyone.

**Session 2: My Role -- From the Inside**

**Objectives**

-   Explore personal perception of professional role.

-   Strengthen clarity and confidence in one's role.

-   Begin redefining professional identity as an educator.

**Preparation for the Facilitator**

-   **Tools:** Faces deck (photo cards of faces + reflection cards).
    Word cards. Notebooks.

-   **Room:** Circle of chairs, quiet and intimate setup.

-   **Atmosphere:** Calming background music for reflective exercises.

**Flow & Detailed Facilitation**

**1. Opening Energizer (10 min)**

-   **Script:**

"Take a word card that reflects how your role feels for you today -- as
a teacher, counselor, or educator. Share one sentence with the group."

-   Round of sharing.

**2. Personal Reflection (20 min)**

-   Each participant writes in notebook:

    -   What works in my role?

    -   What feels unclear or missing?

**Facilitator Note:** Emphasize honesty, not "ideal answers."

**3. Sharing in Pairs (20 min)**

-   Participants exchange their reflections in pairs.

-   Instructions: one speaks for 3 minutes, the other only listens, then
    switch.

**Script:**

"Your only task as listener is to give your partner full attention,
without advice or comments. Listening itself is a gift."

**4. Faces Activity -- Exploring Identity (40 min)**

-   Each participant chooses a **Faces photo card** that reflects "Me as
    an educator today."

-   Reflective guiding questions:

    -   What do these eyes see?

    -   What do they avoid seeing?

    -   What emotion lies behind this face?

    -   How does this represent my role now?

-   Add one **reflection card** (word) from the deck: "This word is part
    of my professional identity."

**Facilitator Script:**

"Look closely at the face you chose. Ask yourself: what story is hidden
here? How does it mirror your own professional reality?"

-   Sharing in groups of 3.

**5. Group Dialogue (30 min)**

-   Circle discussion:

    -   What patterns do we share as a team?

    -   What empowers us in our roles?

    -   Where do we feel limited?

**6. Integration (20 min)**

-   Each writes a sentence: "As an educator I am..."

-   Decorate it with stickers/cards on ClicKit canvas.

**7. Closing (10 min)**

-   Closing circle: each shares their sentence aloud.

**Script:**

"Our roles are complex, yet today you gave them words, images, and
faces. Hold onto this clarity as we continue."

**Field Practice**

-   Journal daily for a week: *"One moment I felt aligned with my
    role."*

-   Bring one written story to Session 3.

**Possible Challenges & Tips**

-   **Emotional exposure:** Some may resist seeing themselves in the
    Faces cards. Normalize discomfort: "It's okay if it feels unusual --
    that's part of the process."

-   **Overthinking:** Encourage intuition. "Choose quickly, don't
    overanalyze."

-   **Comparisons:** Remind participants there is no "good" or "bad"
    role identity -- only what is true now.

**Session 3: My Role -- From the Outside**

**Objectives**

-   Examine role perception from others (colleagues, students, parents).

-   Identify gaps between self-perception and external expectations.

-   Begin bridging these perspectives.

**Preparation**

-   **Homework before session:** Each participant interviewed 2--3
    stakeholders about expectations.

-   **Tools:** Speak Up cards, photo cards, notebooks.

**Flow & Detailed Facilitation**

**1. Homework Debrief (20 min)**

-   Small circle sharing: What did I hear from colleagues/students about
    my role?

**2. Small Group Sharing (30 min)**

-   Compare "My view" vs. "Their view."

-   Use flipchart to map common themes.

**3. Speak Up Dialogue (40 min)**

-   Place Speak Up question cards in the center.

-   Prompts:

    -   "What do others expect from me?"

    -   "What do I expect of myself?"

-   Participants pick cards and respond.

**4. Plenary Reflection (30 min)**

-   Group dialogue:

    -   What surprised me?

    -   What gaps do I want to bridge?

**5. Integration (20 min)**

-   Each writes a personal reflection: "One gap I commit to bridging
    this month."

**6. Closing (10 min)**

-   Each chooses a word card: "One quality I want to strengthen."

**Field Practice**

-   Choose one action to bridge an expectation gap with a colleague or
    student. Document it.

**Possible Challenges & Tips**

-   **Defensiveness:** Some may feel criticized by external feedback.
    Normalize: "It's not about being wrong -- it's about expanding our
    awareness."

-   **Overload:** Focus on *one gap at a time*.

**Session 4: Bridging the Gaps -- Action Plan**

**Objectives**

-   Redefine professional role with new insights.

-   Build a practical and inspiring action plan.

**Preparation**

-   **Tools:** ClicKit kits, markers, stickers.

-   **Atmosphere:** Upbeat, creative energy.

**Flow**

1.  **Opening Pause (10 min):** Breathing exercise.

2.  **Personal Summary (20 min):** Write 3 key insights from previous
    sessions.

3.  **Action Planning with ClicKit (45 min):** Canvas: My updated role.
    Include: strengths, challenges, next steps.

4.  **Peer Coaching (45 min):** In triads, present action plan, receive
    feedback.

5.  **Plenary Dialogue (20 min):** What patterns do we notice?

6.  **Integration (20 min):** Write 3 small steps to start this month.

7.  **Closing (10 min):** Each chooses a card that represents "My next
    step."

**Field Practice**

-   Implement one of the three steps within a week.

**Possible Challenges**

-   **Plans too big:** Encourage breaking them down: "What's one small,
    doable step?"

-   **Fear of failure:** Normalize: "Plans can be adjusted; the key is
    to move forward."

**Session 5: Check-In -- Fine Tuning**

**Objectives**

-   Review implementation of action plan.

-   Identify recurring challenges.

-   Strengthen team motivation.

**Preparation**

-   **Tools:** Speak Up cards, word cards, notebooks.

**Flow**

1.  **Opening (15 min):** Card check-in + resilience quote.

2.  **Sharing Circle (40 min):** Successes, challenges, surprises.

3.  **Win-Win Dialogue (40 min):** Questions:

    -   What do I bring?

    -   What do I ask from the team?

    -   What do I receive from the team?

4.  **Update Action Plan (30 min):** Adjust based on experiences.

5.  **Integration (20 min):** Each writes: "One commitment for the next
    month."

6.  **Closing (15 min):** One-word encouragement round.

**Field Practice**

-   Practice one supportive behavior toward a teammate.

**Challenges**

-   **Low energy:** Use Lift mode energizers.

-   **Blame tendency:** Remind: focus on responsibility, not fault.

**Session 6: Quality Conversations with Interfaces**

**Objectives**

-   Learn and practice expectation-setting and feedback.

-   Develop confidence in difficult conversations.

**Preparation**

-   **Tools:** Speak Up cards, Conversation Templates, photo cards.

-   **Atmosphere:** Professional yet supportive.

**Flow**

1.  **Opening (15 min):** Card: "A conversation I avoid."

2.  **Mini-Lecture (20 min):** PR technique, expectation-setting.

3.  **Simulation in Pairs (45 min):** Practice Beginning/Mid/End-year
    conversations with cards.

4.  **Feedback Round (20 min):** Peers reflect on listening, clarity,
    empathy.

5.  **Integration (30 min):** Each writes a script for one real upcoming
    conversation.

6.  **Closing (10 min):** Card: "How I want to feel in my next
    conversation."

**Field Practice**

-   Hold one real conversation using new tools. Reflect in notebook.

**Challenges**

-   **Resistance to roleplay:** Emphasize practice value.

-   **Difficult emotions:** Remind: silence and empathy are valid
    responses.

**Session 7: Collaboration and Teamwork**

**Objectives**

-   Strengthen team trust and reciprocity.

-   Explore team roles and dynamics.

**Preparation**

-   **Tools:** Team Fusion roles exercise, Speak Up cards.

**Flow**

1.  **Opening (15 min):** Appreciation circle.

2.  **Team Roles Exercise (45 min):** Identify practical, sensitive,
    wounded roles. Reflect: which role do I take?

3.  **Speak Up Activity (40 min):** "How can we grow together as a
    team?"

4.  **Group Dialogue (30 min):** Identify supports and blockers of
    teamwork.

5.  **Integration (20 min):** Each writes: "My contribution to our
    growth."

6.  **Closing (10 min):** Shared group gesture of unity.

**Field Practice**

-   Initiate one supportive act for a teammate.

**Challenges**

-   **Conflict arises:** Frame it as learning.

-   **Passive members:** Use direct invitation: "We'd love to hear your
    voice."

**Session 8: Integration and Closure**

**Objectives**

-   Celebrate journey and achievements.

-   Integrate insights into future practice.

-   Create a shared vision as a team.

**Preparation**

-   **Tools:** ClicKit canvas, collage materials, music.

-   **Atmosphere:** Festive and warm.

**Flow**

1.  **Opening Ritual (15 min):** Gratitude circle with music.

2.  **Personal Reflection (30 min):** ClicKit canvas: "What I leave
    behind, what I take forward."

3.  **Pair Sharing (30 min):** Deep listening.

4.  **Group Collage (45 min):** Create shared vision map. Present as a
    group.

5.  **Closing Circle (30 min):** One word or gesture of closure.

6.  **Celebration (20 min):** Certificates, group photo, music.

**Field Practice**

-   Hold monthly peer-reflection meetings using cards.

**Challenges**

-   **Sadness about ending:** Honor it, invite gratitude.

-   **Fear of "returning to routine":** Emphasize sustaining rituals
    (monthly check-ins).

**Integration & Next Steps**

-   Encourage teams to use card-based check-ins regularly.

-   Provide reflection journals.

-   Suggest annual refresh session.

-   Inspire integration of methods into classrooms and student work.
