**20 Reflective Prompts Using Points of You速 Style with Image/Metaphor
Integration**

Each prompt below follows the Points of You速 methodology and integrates
a reflective journey through 10 depth questions, the use of photo cards
or metaphors, and a final synthesis including patterns, insights,
suggested actions, daily affirmation, and an inspiring closure message.

**Prompt 1: Unmasking the Authentic Self** I want to discover who I
truly am beneath the masks I wear. Invite me to choose a photo that
reflects a mask I might wear in daily life. Guide me through 10 deep,
unfolding questions, one at a time. After the last one, reflect like my
Higher Self: What patterns hold me back? What truths shine through?
Offer small steps I can take, an empowering affirmation, and a metaphor
or image to remind me of my truth.

**Prompt 2: Love, Distance, and Longing** I want to explore my current
relationship dynamic. Let me choose a photo that symbolizes the
emotional distance or closeness I feel. Lead me through 10 personal
questions. Then interpret my answers through a symbolic lens: What am I
craving? What am I resisting? Offer a daily practice, an affirmation,
and a closing image that brings me hope.

**Prompt 3: The Leader Within Me** I want to understand who I am as a
leader today, and who I am becoming. Choose for me a photo that reflects
leadership energy. Ask me 10 progressive questions to reveal my
leadership style, fears, and vision. Afterward, reflect with me on what
serves and what blocks my growth. Suggest a daily micro-action, give me
a metaphor for inspired leadership, and end with a quote that calls me
to rise.

**Prompt 4: Standing at a Crossroads** I feel stuck between two paths.
Offer me two contrasting images that symbolize each direction. Let me
choose. Then ask me 10 layered questions to dive into the meaning and
fear behind each path. At the end, help me clarify what movement means
for me. Offer the "T-Junction" metaphor and help me commit to one small
act of movement. Give me an image and mantra for courage.

**Prompt 5: The Story I Keep Telling** Help me uncover the limiting
story I'm stuck in. Let me pick a photo card intuitively. Then, guide me
with 10 unfolding questions to explore the narrative I carry. After,
reflect on the cost of the story and invite me to reframe it. Offer a
symbolic image to represent the new story, a daily phrase to rewrite my
script, and a playful metaphor for transformation.

**Prompt 6: Integrity in Action** I want to examine the alignment
between what I say, intend, and do. Choose a symbolic image for me that
represents integrity (or its loss). Walk me through 10 questions about
promises made, broken, and kept. Afterward, help me see what needs to be
restored. Invite me to pick a Word card that represents my new
commitment, and give me a small repair action. Affirm me with strength.

**Prompt 7: My Career Mirror** Let me reflect on where I am in my
professional journey. Offer me a photo that symbolizes work-life or let
me choose. Then ask 10 questions to explore my current role, values,
dissonance, and dreams. Summarize what's working and what's not. Suggest
a metaphor for alignment, a simple next move, and an image that reminds
me of my professional power.

**Prompt 8: The Relationship I Want with Myself** Guide me to meet
myself more gently. Let me choose a card that feels like "me" in this
moment. Then ask 10 questions about how I relate to myself. Help me
recognize inner criticism, hidden tenderness, and potential healing.
Reflect like a wise mirror. Offer one act of self-love, one word to
carry, and an image that shows me who I am becoming.

**Prompt 9: Closing a Chapter** Help me say goodbye to something that no
longer serves me. Ask me to pick a photo that represents what I'm ready
to release. Guide me with 10 questions to explore its role, impact, and
why now is the time. Then help me close the chapter gently but
powerfully. Offer me a ritual idea, a release image, and a mantra for
closure.

**Prompt 10: The Power of Pausing** I want to reconnect to presence in
the midst of chaos. Choose an image for me that evokes stillness or let
me pick. Then walk me through 10 questions to deepen into pause, breath,
and what is present now. Reflect back what I'm not noticing. Offer me a
micro-practice for daily pause, an anchoring word, and a quiet image
that becomes my personal reminder to return.

**Prompt 11: My Team as a Living System** I want to reflect on my team
as an ecosystem. Let me choose a photo that represents our current group
dynamic. Ask 10 questions that uncover flow, stagnation, connection, and
gaps. Then analyze what's alive, what's stuck, and what the team needs
to thrive. Offer a symbolic image, a new team metaphor, and a practical
relational shift to test this week.

**Prompt 12: Embracing Change (Even When I Didn't Choose It)** I'm going
through change I didn't initiate. Choose a photo that reflects loss,
shift, or ambiguity. Ask me 10 questions that help me process, grieve,
adapt, and choose how to meet the new. Close with a metaphor for
transformation, a daily anchor word, and a tiny brave action I can take
to reclaim choice.

**Prompt 13: The Voice I Silence** Help me uncover a part of me I often
ignore. Let me choose a photo that feels shadowy, mysterious, or
silenced. Ask me 10 questions to connect with that voice. Then mirror it
back to me with compassion. Offer an image of integration, a word that
symbolizes that voice, and an action to give it space in daily life.

**Prompt 14: The Emotion Beneath the Emotion** I want to go deeper than
what I usually feel. Choose an image that reflects an emotion I'm
willing to explore. Ask me 10 questions to help me peel the layers.
What's beneath the anger? The joy? The numbness? Help me name and
express the deeper truth. Offer a metaphor for emotional permission and
a practice for expression.

**Prompt 15: My Relationship with Time** I want to explore how I live in
relation to time. Let me choose a photo that expresses rush, stillness,
or rhythm. Ask 10 questions around pressure, deadlines, waiting, and
presence. Reflect on my pace. Offer a new metaphor for time that feels
nourishing, and a daily micro-adjustment I can make.

**Prompt 16: Beyond Right and Wrong** I'm facing a dilemma. Offer me an
image that holds paradox. Then ask 10 questions that help me explore
both sides, feel the tension, and find wisdom in complexity. Don't help
me decide -- help me sit with not-knowing. Offer a metaphor for holding
paradox, and a ritual of temporary surrender.

**Prompt 17: Legacy and Impact** I want to explore the impact I leave
behind. Let me choose an image that symbolizes contribution. Ask me 10
questions about how I show up, what I seed in others, and how I want to
be remembered. Reflect on the values that guide me. Offer a metaphor for
legacy, and a step I can take this week to live into it.

**Prompt 18: Trusting the Unknown** I'm ready to leap but feel scared.
Offer me an image that symbolizes uncertainty or the edge. Ask me 10
questions about control, trust, and surrender. Help me name the fear and
the invitation. Reflect with faith. Offer a metaphor for trust and a
symbolic gift (word or image) for courage.

**Prompt 19: From Burnout to Boundaries** Help me explore why I'm
exhausted. Choose a photo that represents depletion or let me choose.
Ask 10 questions about over-giving, resentment, and the fear of saying
no. Reflect on what needs reclaiming. Offer a boundary ritual, a symbol
for "enough," and one sentence I can start practicing this week.

**Prompt 20: What I Really Want** Strip away the noise and help me
remember my true desires. Offer me an image that holds longing or let me
pick. Ask 10 questions that bring me closer to what I want without
shame. Reflect on what lights me up. Offer a metaphor for desire, a word
to whisper daily, and a gentle action to move toward it.

Each of these prompts can be adapted for: - Individual self-reflection
journeys - Coaching/facilitation sessions - Group workshops - Daily or
weekly journaling rituals

They are all grounded in the Points of You速 method: Pause, Expand,
Focus, Doing -- and each one incorporates images, metaphors, layered
questioning, emotional insight, and action.

**Examples of Questions You Can Use in Each Prompt**

These sample questions are written in the tone and methodology of Points
of You速, and can be adapted based on the context, the participant's
readiness, and the image or metaphor in use. They are designed to be
layered, starting from the surface and moving deeper, while keeping the
flow gentle, reflective, and occasionally surprising.

**Sample Questions for Prompt 1: Unmasking the Authentic Self**

1.  What do you notice in the photo that reminds you of yourself?

2.  If this image could talk, what would it say about you?

3.  What part of you feels visible in your daily life?

4.  What part of you do you tend to hide, and why?

5.  What is one belief you hold that may no longer serve you?

6.  When did you start wearing this specific \"mask\"?

7.  What has this mask protected you from?

8.  What price have you paid for wearing it?

9.  What would be possible without it?

10. If you took it off gently, what would the world see?

**\
Sample Questions for Prompt 3: The Leader Within Me**

1.  What qualities of leadership does the image reflect?

2.  What type of leader do you feel like today?

3.  Who do you lead well, and who challenges you?

4.  What feedback about your leadership has stayed with you?

5.  When do you feel least like a leader?

6.  What does \"power\" mean to you?

7.  Who was a leader that shaped you, for better or worse?

8.  What part of leadership do you love? What part do you resist?

9.  What legacy do you want your leadership to leave?

10. What image or metaphor best represents your leadership essence?

**\
Sample Questions for Prompt 11: My Team as a Living System**

1.  What does this image remind you of in your team?

2.  What roles are clearly defined, and what's blurred?

3.  Where is energy flowing in the team?

4.  Where is there stagnation or disconnect?

5.  Who feels seen and who may feel unseen?

6.  What is being said in the team? What is not being said?

7.  What emotion is most present in team interactions?

8.  If the team were a weather system, what forecast would you give?

9.  What does the team need more of to thrive?

10. What one shift could nourish the team dynamic this month?

**\
Sample Questions for Prompt 15: My Relationship with Time**

1.  What feeling does the photo evoke about time?

2.  When do you feel rushed?

3.  When do you feel spacious?

4.  What would \"slow\" look like in your week?

5.  What do you say yes to too quickly?

6.  What are you postponing and why?

7.  How do you relate to deadlines?

8.  What belief do you carry about productivity?

9.  What would it mean to \"waste time\" lovingly?

10. If you gave time a face, what would it look like?

**Additional Reflective Questions You Can Use Across Prompts**

These can be used flexibly across various journeys:

1.  What's missing in the image? And what might that say about something
    missing in your life?

2.  If the main figure in the image could speak to you, what would it
    say?

3.  What patterns do you notice about yourself as you look at the image?

4.  What are you ready to leave behind, and what makes that difficult?

5.  If this image represented a turning point, what came just before it?
    What comes after?

6.  What emotion is just beneath the surface that you haven't yet named?

7.  What would you name this image if it was the cover of your story
    today?

8.  What gift might be hidden in the uncomfortable part of the image?

9.  What do you notice about where your eyes go first when looking at
    this photo?

10. What title would this photo have if it was a metaphor for your
    current experience?

**Examples of Thematic 10-Question Flows for Specific Prompts**

**Prompt 5: The Story I Keep Telling**

1.  What story have you been telling yourself lately?

2.  Where did this story originate?

3.  How has this story served you?

4.  How has it limited you?

5.  What role do you play in this story? Hero, victim, outsider?

6.  What chapter do you keep repeating?

7.  What would change if you rewrote the ending?

8.  Who would you be without this narrative?

9.  What new metaphor could represent a better story?

10. What is your next sentence?

**Prompt 14: The Emotion Beneath the Emotion**

1.  What is the emotion that appears first?

2.  When was the last time you felt it strongly?

3.  What triggered it in that moment?

4.  What emotion is hiding beneath it?

5.  What does that deeper emotion need from you?

6.  Where do you feel it in your body?

7.  If this emotion had a color, shape, or movement -- what would it be?

8.  What message is it trying to bring you?

9.  What would happen if you truly allowed it to be there?

10. What image or word could help you stay in healthy relationship with
    it?

These are just a few examples. Each prompt can be supported by:

-   **Image-based observation** (\"What detail in the photo reflects
    your situation?\")

-   **Metaphorical framing** (\"If this photo is a mirror, what is it
    showing you?\")

-   **Layered emotional inquiry** (\"What emotion is under the
    emotion?\")

-   **Time-oriented insight** (\"What happened just before this moment?
    And just after?\")

-   **Vision and integration** (\"If this card became a compass, where
    would it point?\")

You are encouraged to select 2--3 of these directions per prompt and let
the process unfold intuitively from there, as the interaction with the
photo and the participant deepens.

Let the image ask the question. Let the story lead. Let the metaphor
surprise you. Let the insight arrive, unforced.
