**SOLUTIONS**

In a land far, far away lived a farmer and his two sons. As young boys,
the sons would help their father with the farm work; but when they grew
older, they left their small village for the big city. Sadly, the
temptations of the city got the better of them, and the two young men
veered off the straight and narrow path their father had laid out for
them: The older brother turned murderer, while the younger became a
thief; and the two soon found themselves behind bars serving jail
sentences. The years went by, and the father grew old and weak, and was
no longer able to plow his fields. He knew that without help right away,
he would lose all he had built over the years and would be left
destitute and hungry. So, the father sat down and composed a letter to
his younger son. In his letter, the father asked his son to approach the
prison board and explain the situation, hoping that this would secure
the young man\'s release. When the prison board\'s negative reply soon
came, the saddened father, in his desperation, composed a similar letter
to his older son. Immediately on receiving his father\'s letter, the
older son responded with one of his own. \"Father, don\'t dare touch the
field. All the treasures from my murder victims are hidden there,\" he
wrote, and sent it off. Two days later, 100 policemen raided the
father\'s field, turning over every piece of earth. Of course, they
found nothing at all. Another two days passed, and the father received a
second letter from his older son: \"My dear father,\" he had written.
\"I hope the policemen did a good job; I did the best I could. With
love, your son.\"

**Folk tale**

Your approach to problems, determines whether you will or will not find
a solution to them. One approach has it that all problems are
catastrophes, while another says that no problem is too great. The
moment you say no problem is too great, 99% of the problem have
disappeared, and your entire perspective of it has changed.

**Yaron Golan**

Obstacles don\'t have to stop you. If you run into a wall, don\'t turn
around and give up. Figure out how to get over it.

**Michael Jordan**

We can\'t solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used when
we created them.\
**Albert Einstein**

We are continually faced by great opportunities brilliantly disguised as
insoluble problems.\
**Lee Iacocca**

**What is my automatic response when I run into a problem?**

**What takes up more of my energy -- accusations or solutions?**

**Do I simply make a check mark or do I find a real solution?**

It\'s impossible. I\'m stuck. Why does it always happen to me? It\'s
your fault.

What can I do? It\'s too complex.

I don't want to hear about any more problems.

I don\'t know. Why now? What\'s the problem?

There\'s no solution. It\'s difficult. Why is everything always so
complicated?

Perhaps we should try. I am looking but cannot find what I am looking
for. What do you suggest?

**LEARNING**

A frog that lived by the ocean decided one day to go on a journey
through the expanses of the large stretch of land alongside its home --
and duly set out, visiting new and interesting places and enjoying every
moment.

While on its journey, the frog came across a well, and decided it could
do with a drink. To its pleasant surprise, the ocean frog met another
frog in the well who, too, was somewhat taken aback by the unexpected
visitor. After all, the well frog and its family had grown up in the
well, and had never left it, not knowing at all what was on the outside.

The well frog then turned to the visitor and asked: \"What exactly is an
ocean?\"

And the ocean frog replied: \"an ocean is a very large, a huge body of
water.\"

\"What do you mean by huge?\" asked the well frog in return. \"Something
like half the depth of the water in our well here?\"

\"No, It is much bigger.\"

\"So, it is the same depth as this well?\" questioned the well frog.

\"No,\" replied the ocean frog again. \"It is even bigger.\"

The well frog was skeptical, and said impatiently: \"OK, it certainly
can\'t be bigger than the full depth of this well; nothing in the world
is bigger than the depth of this well.\"

\"I truly do not wish to offend you,\" replied the ocean frog, \"but it
is much, much bigger indeed.\"

The well frog was angered, and spoke harshly: \"There is nothing bigger
than this well; you are talking nonsense. Go away from here; you are
angering me with your stories about an ocean.\"

**Zen story**

It is impossible to begin to learn that which one thinks one already
knows.\
**Epictetus**

The well bred contradict other people. The wise contradict themselves.\
**Oscar Wilde**

I am always doing that which I can not do,

in order that I may learn how to do it.\
**Pablo Picasso**

Sometimes you want to give up the guitar, you\'ll hate the guitar. But
if you stick with it, you\'re gonna be rewarded.\
**Jimi Hendrix**

**Am I allowing myself to learn something new?**

**Who is a teacher in my eyes?**

**What do I need to forget in order to learn?**

**What lesson is life currently teaching me?**

**Do I invest in learning about myself?**

Don\'t teach me. What nonsense. I disagree with you. Come,

let me show you. What are your qualifications?

That cannot be so. I am right. I know.

What does he know anyway? There\'s no chance in the world.

Why do you think you know more than I do? Prove it to me. Perhaps...

**EVERYTHING is POSSIBLE**

\"Lacking a creative sense" and \"no original ideas\" Those were the
reasons for turning him down, the young artist was told, when he applied
for a job as an illustrator at a newspaper. But the young artist was
blessed with a sense of confidence unlike those around him.

He believed that creating an entire fantasy world based on illustrated
characters creating them in larger than life-size, illuminating it all
in the most colorful bright lights, would make people forget their
problems, become child-like once again and thus reconnect to their
dreams.

The name of the young artist was Walt Disney, who went on to build the
incredible Disney Empire.

The early 1900s were undoubtedly not the times to realistically believe
in the creation of an entire fantasy world. No one other than Disney
himself, believed it would bring such joy to so many children and adults
around the world. His optimism changed reality for us all.

Hundreds of millions of people from all around the globe have grown up
with the magical world of Walt Disney -- a world that began with the
dream of a single individual.

**\"If you can dream it, you can achieve it\"**

Would be the creed that guided Disney throughout his enterprise.

To fledgling birds flight in the sky may appear incredible.

**Rabindranath Tagore**

The poorest man lacks not a dollar but a dream.

**Unknown**

The marble not yet carved can hold the form of

every thought the greatest artist has.

**Michelangelo**

\'Let go now; you\'ll never be able to do it!\'

Ignore that piece of advice and you\'ll be halfway to your goal.

**David Tzuker**

**In a world in which everything's possible: What does my life look
like?**

**With whom am I sharing my life?**

**Where do I live?**

**What is keeping me busy?**

**How much do I earn?**

**How does my life feel like?**

Impossible. It\'s illogical. Who told you so? It won\'t work. What
nonsense!

I thought just like you when I was young. I don\'t believe in it. You
and your fantasies. No one has ever done it before.

Perhaps it is just a dream? I don\'t know. Dare give it your best shot,
it might work out well.

**\
SHOULD BE**

I have a friend who lives in a very well to do neighborhood. Both she
and her husband are successful lawyers; they are two intelligent
individuals and each hold prestigious university degrees.

I had been at their home for about an hour or so during a recent visit
when my friend told me that she had to leave for a few minutes to pick
up her daughter from a dance class. When the two of them returned, the
young girl was sobbing and clearly very upset.

I asked my friend what had happened to bring on such crying,

and she replied:

\"I always wanted to be a dancer and my parents wouldn\'t hear of it.
The same thing is not going to happen to my daughter. She has to be a
dancer -- even if it is tough on her. I missed out big time because my
parents forced me to become a lawyer. I will never force her to be a
lawyer -- she\'ll be a dancer!\"

We don\'t see things as they are; we see them as we are.

**Proverb**

If you were to say to the grown-ups: \'I saw a beautiful house made of
rosy brick, with geraniums in the windows and doves on the roof,\' they
would not be able to get any idea of that house at all. You would have
to say to them: \'I saw a house that cost \$ 200,000.\' Then they would
exclaim: \'Oh, what a pretty house that is!\'

**Antoine de Saint-Exup√©ry, The Little Prince \[6\]**

So long as you are yourself, I can get along with you.

**David D\'Angelo**

The lists of things that \"should be\" run our lives, without giving an
iota of space to who we really are and to the moving surprises that life
brings us.

**Efrat Shani**

**Who am I \"supposed to be\"? What \"should\" my life be like?**

**Who said that this was the way it \"should be\"?**

**How can my \"should be\" lists be changed?**

**Where in my life is their clash between what \"should be\" and what
is?**

My mother always told me that I should be... good with everyone, so that
they would like me. To be a great success. To get all A's in school.

To be a street-wise businessman, with a sexy wife and an expensive car.

To be happy.

To be smart.

To be beautiful.

To be a perfect mother, a babe, career-minded, and a good cook.

**CHOICE**

There was once a truly beautiful bird -- strong, free and very brave.

Nothing at all frightened it.

It would fly wherever it chose to and was very proud of

its very colorful and vibrant plumage.

One day, the bird decided to settle down and build a nest for itself.

And so, one by one, it began to pluck out its feathers and to use them

to build a beautiful nest, one that was comfortable and gave the bird a

true sense of security.

And the bird was happy!

But it could no longer fly.

**African folk tale**

We choose our sorrows and joys long before we experience them.

**Khalil Gibran**

When you have to make a choice and don\'t make it, that in itself is a
choice.\
**William James**

If you limit your choices only to what seems possible or reasonable, you
disconnect yourself from what you truly want, and all that is left is a
compromise.

**Robert Fritz**

We hardly ever realize that we can cut anything out of our lives,
anytime, in the blink of an eye.

**Carlos Castaneda**

**Just how much is free choice and how much is pre-determined?**

**What price do I pay for avoiding making a choice?**

**What kind of relationships do I choose to be in?**

**Who do I choose to be? What do I choose to express?**

I have no choice. I have to. It\'s not up to me. I made my choice; now I
am relieved. Everything is clear now.

I cannot change. Staying on both sides of the fence.

I don\'t know what is right for me. I prefer to wait for something to
happen. What if I go wrong? Tomorrow. Another time. It\'ll work out...

**CALLING**

There once lived a king who loved magic and jugglery, and he would
promise rich rewards in gold to anyone who could entertain him.
Magicians and jugglers came from all over the kingdom. One day, a
magician appeared and assured the king that he would be able to perform
a unique trick that would impress the king to no end. The magician then
told the king that it would cost him 100 gold coins. \"So much gold for
just one magic trick?\" asked the king. \"Your Majesty, I will perform
the trick for you 20 times, and I assure you that you will be
astounded.\" The king was impressed and agreed to pay. Out of his pocket
the magician then took a small box filled with needles. He walked over
to a nearby tree, stuck one of the needles in the trunk, and then walked
back until he was standing some 50 yards from his target. \"Watch
closely, Your Majesty,\" the magician said, pulling out a second needle
from the box and throwing it in the direction of the tree. The needle
flew straight as an arrow and precisely through the eye of the needle
that the []{dir="rtl"}magician had embedded in the trunk. \"Your
Majesty, look, the second needle is on its way.\" The second needle flew
right through the eye of the one stuck in the tree trunk. And thus the
magician continued with 20 needles. \"Well done,\" said the king \"You
certainly deserve the 100 gold coins. In addition, however, I am hereby
ordering that you be given 20 lashes as punishment; a man with such
wonderful skills and abilities should not be wasting his talents on
nonsense.\"

**Persian folk tale**

A rock pile ceases to be a rock pile the moment a single man
contemplates it, bearing within him the image of a cathedral.

**Antoine de Saint-Exup√©ry**

Every man\'s life is a fairy tale written by God\'s fingers.

**Hans Christian Andersen**

Here is a test to find whether your mission on earth is finished: If
you\'re alive, it isn\'t.

**Richard Bach, Illusions** **\[16\]**

The meaning of our existence is not invented by ourselves, but rather
detected.

**Victor Frankl**

**Am I born with my destiny or do I reveal it on my journey?**

**Why must I follow my Calling? Is there just one single destiny?**

**What do I believe to be the role I am destined to play?**

**Why does one need to discover one\'s calling?**

Maybe I am going in the wrong direction? I don\'t like what I am doing.
I feel I\'m on a mission.

A part of a whole. Had I known... I wish I could find it. Nonsense. What
difference will it make in my life?

It make if I do or do not know? Why am I here? It\'s too depressing.
Where am I going? Who knows? It will come. I am on my way.

**JUST BE**

A happy-go-lucky centipede lived a quiet and peaceful life out in the
jungle, without a care in the world -- until, that is, a philosophical
frog approached it one day and asked it a strange question:

\"What is the order you move your legs in when you walk?\" the frog
asked. \"How does a centipede decide which leg to move first and which
leg to move next? And with one hundred of them to choose from to boot!\"

Coping with 100 legs seemed to the frog to be a big problem, and it was
most eager to solve the puzzle. The centipede, for its part, was
somewhat surprised and unsure:

\"This is how I have walked all my life, and I have never asked myself
that question. Let me think about it,\" it said, standing still for a
few moments and quietly thinking about the answer.

\"Hmmm,\" it thought to itself, \"the frog is quite right: Which leg do
I move first?\"

The centipede then tried to take a step forward; but ...oops! Its legs
got tangled up and it fell over.

It then turned to the frog and said: \"Pleeeeease! My dear frog, don\'t
ever ask that same question of another centipede; I have walked without
any problems my entire life, and now ... I cannot move!\"

**Zen story**

Perhaps if I were not afraid to be myself, I would be a natural joker.

A humorous retort may be flickering in my mind, but the fear of what
people might think, stops me from saying what comes to my mind.

**Hugh Prather, Notes to Myself \[1\]**

Enjoy the journey, enjoy every moment,

and quit worrying about winning or losing.

**Matt Biondi**

Don\'t underestimate the value of Doing Nothing, of just going along,
listening to all the things you can\'t hear, and not bothering.

**A. A. Milne, Winnie the Pooh**

To simply Be is very exhausting because the price you pay for simply
existing is all you have. You have to lose everything in order to simply
Be.

**Osho**

**What does to simply Be, mean?**

**How does one do nothing? Is it difficult?**

**Do I ever permit myself to simply Be and do nothing?**

**Do I allow myself to be me?**

I feel like letting go. What am I going to do? I go with the flow. I\'m
exhausted.

What will be? I just want to. It's too complicated. You have to work
hard at it. I have to do something.

I\'m worried. I feel like doing nothing. I don\'t know what to do with
myself. What will people say?

**PAUSE**

A number of students were sitting quietly with their teacher one day
when a hunter passed by. The hunter was surprised to see the renowned
teacher sitting there at ease and doing nothing at all, remarking that
the man\'s inaction appeared to be a waste of precious time.

\"Take your bow, cock it, and fire an arrow,\" the teacher responded
quietly.

And the hunter obliged.

\"Cock your bow and fire another arrow,\" the teacher then said.

And the hunter again obliged -- again and again and again.

Finally the hunter spoke up: \"Teacher, if I continue to cock my bow at
this rate, it will break.\"

\"The same goes for all of us,\" said the teacher. \"If we push
ourselves excessively, we will break too. The right thing to do
sometimes is to take a break and cease all activity.\"

**Zen story**

Stop a moment, cease your work, and look around you.

**Thomas Carlyle**

Pause is a tool for creating clarity, calmness, a fresh look, and
internal peace... there are an infinite number of things you will find
out if you only try.

**Efrat Shani**

People travel to wonder at the height of mountains, at the huge waves of
the sea, at the long courses of rivers, at the vast compass of the
ocean, at the circular motion of the stars; and they pass by themselves
without wondering.\
**St. Augustine**\
\
I shut my eyes in order to see.\
**Paul Gauguin**

**When did life force me to stop?\
Why is it so hard to pause? Do I stop enough?\
What price am I paying by not stopping even for a moment?\
What is my favorite way of stopping and taking a break?**

I\'m overwhelmed. What is meditation? I want to understand. I feel like
taking it easy. I need time to think. How am I feeling? I love writing
in my diary. What do I want? It has been a long time since I watched the
sunset\
I have no time for myself. I\'m in a whirlpool. I take myself for a
walk. The penny has dropped. I am taking myself out on a date.

**DEVOTION**

A long while ago, a great warrior faced a situation which made it
necessary for him to make a decision which insured his success on the
battlefield. He was about to send his armies against a powerful enemy
whose men outnumbered his own.

He loaded his soldiers into boats, sailed to the enemy\'s country,
unloaded soldiers and equipment, and then gave the order to burn the
ships that had carried them.

Addressing his men before the first battle, he said, \'You see the boats
going up in smoke. That means that we cannot leave these shores alive
unless we win! We now have no choice -- we win or we perish!\'

They won.

Every person who wins in any undertaking must be willing to burn his
ships and cut all sources of retreat.

**Napoleon Hill, Think & Grow Rich \[3\]**

Devotion is the place at which we are willing to remain true to
ourselves and our choices, at which we are ready to take the plunge and
pay any price required.

**Yaron Golan**

There are only two options regarding commitment. You\'re either IN or
you\'re OUT. There\'s no such thing as life in-between.\
**Pat Riley**

When you believe in a thing, believe in it all the way, implicitly and
unquestionably.

**Walt Disney**

Do not allow yourselves to be disheartened by any failure as long as you
have done your best.

**Mother Teresa**

**What is the difference between commitment and devotion?**

**Just how truly committed to myself, my relationship, my parenthood, my
work, my life am I?**

**What are the limitations of commitment?**

**Am I willing to pay the price of my devotion?**

I will take them down if it is the last thing I do. []{dir="rtl"}There
is no way I am giving in. I am not sure it is worth my while.

I have chosen to be devoted and it\'s a weight off my mind. I am too
calculated. And what about me? I am ready to take the plunge. You can
lose control.

Que sera, sera. Such excitement. It\'s every day anew. When I dedicate
myself to something, I forget about me.

**LEADERSHIP**

A new-born lion cub was adopted by a flock of sheep, which raised the
young cat as one of their own kind. And while the cub did indeed grow up
to become a big young lion, it was totally unaware of being one; after
all, it had been surrounded only by sheep all its life. He had no idea
of what he looked like; he was, for all intents and purposes, a sheep:
He only ate grass; he feared predators; and he even made the same sounds
as a sheep and did not know how to roar. One day, an older lion saw the
young one roaming around with the flock of sheep and could hardly
believe its eyes. The sheep, for their part, spotted the older lion too,
and immediately fled, bleating furiously in fear, with the young lion
doing the same. With much effort, the older lion managed to catch up to
the panicked younger one, which squealed and cried just like a sheep,
shaking in fear. The older lion then grabbed the younger one to a nearby
waterhole. The young lion was sure it was about to die. But when they
got to the waterhole, lo and behold -- a miracle: \"My son,\" the older
lion said, \"Look into the water.\" And there, looking back up at them
were the faces of two lions. The younger lion stared at the two faces
for a short while, suddenly feeling a change from within -- and from the
depths of his being came a roar that shook the plains and hills all
around. \"My work is done,\" said the older lion. \"I have done all I
could, you are now on your own. You now know who you really are.\"

**Sufi tale**

The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior
teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires.

**General William Ward**

How fortunate for governments that the people they administer don\'t
think.\
**Adolf Hitler**

The only way in which anyone can lead us is to restore to us the belief
in our own guidance.\
**Henry Miller**

All of this will not be finished in the first one hundred days, nor will
it be finished in the first one thousand days, nor in the life of this
administration,

nor even perhaps in our lifetime on this planet. But let us begin.

**John F. Kennedy**

**Can anyone be a leader?**

**Who are the most important leaders and teachers on my journey through
life? And today?**

**Am I a leader? Do I bring my leadership to the fore?**

Bearing all the responsibility stresses me out. I am not a leader by
nature. You have to be very special to be able to lead.

No one cares about what I have to say. They aren\'t listening to me. Let
me first steer myself.

I know how it can be done better. I don\'t have the courage. I am not
good enough to lead...

**POINT OF VIEW**

Many years ago, the owner of a large shoe factory decided to expand his
business and break into new markets. To this end, he sent two of his
senior employees on a market research mission to Asia, giving each the
task of gathering information from a different part of the continent.

After weeks at sea, the first man arrived at his destination, alighted
the boat, and was immediately stunned by what he encountered: None of
the locals was wearing shoes; in fact, they had never heard of such
things.

The man sent an urgent cable to his boss: \"I have arrived and checked.
They don\'t know anything about shoes. We won\'t be able to sell a
single pair. I\'m returning immediately.\"

The second employee also spent a number of weeks at sea before arriving
at his destination in a different Asian port. He, too, could hardly
believe what he saw when he got off the boat: Not a single person there
was wearing shoes; they had never heard of such things.

The man sent an urgent cable to his boss: \"I\'ve arrived. They don\'t
know anything about shoes here. The potential is enormous; the market is
huge. We can sell millions of pairs a year. I\'ve started making
contacts.\"

Fight for your opinions, but don\'t believe they hold all the truth or
nothing but the truth. Many of the truths we adhere to depend primarily
on our point of view.

**Unknown**

If there is any great secret of success in life, it lies in the ability
to put yourself in the other person\'s place and to see things from his
point of you []{dir="rtl"}- as well as your own.\
**Henry Ford**

Whatever is a reality today, whatever you touch and believe in and that
seems real for you today, is going to be - like the reality of
yesterday - an illusion tomorrow.\
**Luigi Pirandello**

An opportunity for true collaboration arises when you realize that you
can be right while the other may not necessarily be wrong.

**Efrat Shani and Yaron Golan**

**Is there absolute truth?\
How do I react when someone thinks differently than I do?**

**How far am I willing to go in order to express my point of view?**

You don\'t understand a thing. I know what I see. That cannot be.
Whatever you say. There is no chance in the world that I am mistaken.
Come show me how you see things from your point of view

Maybe I am missing something. We view things completely differently.\
This and that, too. [.]{dir="rtl"}Things you see from here you can not
see from there

**INTIMACY**

I was to be killed. I searched my pockets to see if there were any
cigarettes which had escaped their search. I found one but I had no
matches. I looked through the bars at my jailer. He did not make eye
contact with me. After all, one does not make eye contact with a corpse.
I called out to him \'Have you got a light please?\' He looked at me,
shrugged and came over to light my cigarette. As he came close and lit
the match, his eyes inadvertently locked with mine. At that moment, I
smiled. I don\'t know why I did that. Perhaps it was nervousness,
perhaps it was because, when you get very close, one to another, it is
very hard not to smile\... In that instant, a spark jumped across the
gap between our two hearts, our two human souls. I know he didn\'t want
to, but my smile leaped through the bars and generated a smile on his
lips, too. He lit my cigarette but stayed near, looking at me directly
and smiling. I kept smiling at him, now aware of him as a person and not
just a jailer. And his looking at me seemed to have a new dimension,
too. \'Do you have children?\' he asked. \'Yes.\' I took out my wallet
and fumbled for the pictures of my family. He, too, took out the
pictures of his ninos and began to talk about his plans and hopes for
them. My eyes filled with tears. I said that I feared that I\'d never
see my family again, never have the chance to see them grow up. Tears
came to his eyes, too.\
Suddenly, without another word, he unlocked my cell and silently led me
out\...

**Antoine de Saint-Exupery, \"Le Sourire\"**

What greater thing is there for two human souls than to feel that they
are joined - to strengthen each other - to be at one with each other in
silent unspeakable memories.\
**George Eliot**

Can miles truly separate you from friends\... If you want to be with
someone you love, aren\'t you already there?

**Richard Bach, There\'s No Such Place as Far Away \[7\]**

Intimacy is being seen and known as the person you truly are.

**Amy Bloom**

For us to have the same partnership, I cannot begin a conversation when
I am suppressed. I have to approach it with my barriers lifted. I have
to give myself to the closeness and want to be what arises from it.

**Hugh Prather, Notes to myself \[8\]**

**What is so frightening about intimacy?**

**Do I share and allow those who are important to me to truly see me?**

**How does one preserve intimacy over time? What needs to be done?**

We haven\'t spoken at all in almost a month. I had a really great time
with her yesterday, and without sex. There\'s a wall between us. I feel
she is a part of me. I can\'t get close to him. He is my best friend.

If there is no intimacy between us, what\'s left? I soar with him. I
enjoy talking to me

**BALANCE**

A rabbi was passing through a village one day with one of his students
when he was suddenly approached by an elderly man, who asked: \"Tell me,
dear rabbi, how can I get close to God?\"

\"Have fun, enjoy yourself, have a good time; praise our Creator with
your happiness,\" the rabbi answered, and continued on his way with his
student.

A little while later, the two came across a young man, who posed the
same question: \"Tell me, honorable rabbi, how can I get close to God?\"

\"Do your best to stay away from entertainment and enjoyment,\" the
rabbi replied this time.

When the young man had gone on his way, the perplexed student turned to
his rabbi and asked: \"Why did you give those men two different answers
to the question of how to get close to the Creator?\"

\"A man\'s search is like a bridge without a railing that spans a deep
chasm,\" the rabbi said. \"If someone is too close to the right, I tell
him to veer left. And if someone strays to the left, I tell him to move
to the right. The edges keep us from the correct road.\"

**Hassidic story**

To contract, one must first stretch; to weaken, one must first
strengthen; to destroy, one must first build; to take; one must first
give.

**Lao Tse**

The very purpose of existence is to reconcile the glowing opinion we
have of ourselves with the appalling things that other people think
about us.\
**Quentin Crisp**

Nothing in nature disappears. For example, the hair that falls off a
man\'s head grows back from his nose and ears.

**Married with Children -- Peggy Bundy**

A person who is spiritually developed but lacks material development may
appear righteous and a great spiritual individual, but he is not
balanced.

**Ronit Biton and Anat Ben Ari, Maarag\[10\]**

**What is the meaning of being balanced for me?**

**Is it at all possible to be balanced?**

**What do I need to stabilize my self?**

I am neither here nor there. I seem to have overdone it. Don\'t be so
extreme.

It\'s time to stand up for what I believe in. Do an about turn.

She isn\'t consistent. I am too thin. It has become an obsession. I have
eaten so much... I don\'t have a moment\'s peace. I am under pressure...

**SUCCESS**

Many, many years ago, a man wandered from his country to a place known
as the land of the fools. Soon after he got there, he saw a number of
people fleeing in terror from a field in which they had been harvesting
wheat just moments before.

\"There\'s a monster in that field,\" they said to him.

But when the man went to take a closer look at the \"monster,\" he saw
it was nothing but a watermelon, and he offered to \"kill\" it for them.
After chopping the watermelon off its stalk, the man cut himself a piece
and began to eat it.

And the people around him now became more terrified of him than they
were of the \"monster,\" and they chased him away with their pitchforks,
shouting: \"He will kill us next unless we get rid of him.\"

And so it was -- until some time later, when a second wandering man
reached the land of the fools, and came across the same scene of people
fleeing in terror from a \"monster\" in the field. This time, however,
instead of offering to help them deal with the \"monster,\" the man
agreed with them that it was surely very dangerous, winning their trust
by quietly tiptoeing away from it.

The man then spent a long time with the people -- until he was able to
teach them, little by little, the basic essentials that would allow them
to not only overcome their fear of watermelons but also to cultivate
them themselves.

**Idries Shah, The Way of the Sufi \[11\]**

A man is a success if he gets up in the morning and gets to bed at
night,

and in between he does what he wants to do. [\
]{dir="rtl"}**Bob Dylan**

It takes twenty years of hard work to become an overnight success.

**Diana Rankin**

If a warrior is to succeed at anything, the success must come gently,
with a great deal of effort but with no stress or obsession.

**Carlos Castaneda**

Life always gets harder toward the summit - the cold increases, the
responsibility increases.

**Friedrich Nietzsche**

Success consists of going from failure to failure without loss of
enthusiasm.\
**Winston Churchill**

**What is my definition of success?**

**What are successful people made of?**

**What would I like to make a success of at this point in my life?**

**Do I believe I will succeed?**

I did it. Success is not easy to hold on to. Tell me, did any money come
out of it? I never succeed.

I don\'t stand a chance. I don\'t really believe. It\'s better not to
even try. I am way off the mark. I am not giving up.

There are heavy costs along the way. I know I will succeed...
